Nathan Agrin
n8agrin@gmail.com
(510) 316 3646

== Work Experience ==

Engineer, Chartio Inc. October 2011 - Present
San Francisco, California. [chartio.com]

  Assisted rewriting Chartio's custom charting library using d3 and SVG for
  display in the browser.

  Helped plan and execute architectural frontend changes allowing for the
  development of new features and future growth.


Frontend Engineer, Twitter Inc. September 2010 - October 2011
San Francisco, California. [twitter.com]

  As part of a small team, designed and built Twitter's photos product.
  
  Assisted in a major architectural rewrite of Twitter's web framework which
  reduced the overall load time of Twitter users' home timeline. 

  Worked on several internal product development projects which later became
  Twitter's Events product and User Profile enhancements.


User Interface Engineer, Splunk Inc. July 2008 - September 2010
San Francisco, California. [splunk.com]

  Assisted the lead UI engineer in architecting and rewriting
  the Splunk user interface making it more modular and extensable.
  
  Communicated with other in-house engineering, design and testing groups to
  facilitate rapid development during a period of swift growth.


Lead Web Architect, iNaturalist.org. September 2007 - July 2008
Berkeley, California.  [www.inaturalist.org]

  Led the architectural decisions for a group of three building a community
  driven web application allowing naturalists to record what species they
  observed in the wild.
  
  Carried out usability studies, creating prototypes, wireframes and mockups
  as part of a design driven development workflow.
  
  Developed dynamic user interfaces and information visualizations,
  integrating numerous web-based services into the final product.
  
  Work accepted as part of the 2010 Where 2.0 conference.


User Interface Engineer, Bolt | Peters / Ethnio.com. July 2007 - December 2007
San Francisco, California. [ethnio.com]

  Revitalized Bolt | Peters' online user recruiting service, Ethnio.com,
  designing new user interfaces and remodeling workflows based on past users'
  feedback.
  
  Worked as part of a team of three migrating an existing PHP application 
  to a Ruby on Rails based architecture using a test-driven development process.


Lead Developer, Center for History and New Media, October 2005 - May 2007
George Mason University; Fairfax, Virginia. [www.omeka.org, hurricanearchive.org,
911digitalarchive.org]

  Responsible for architectural decisions for a team of three, building the
  open-source web archive application Omeka (omeka.org).

  Successfully deployed large online archives using Omeka.  Integrated
  applicable third party web-services providing further insight into each
  digital collection.
  
  Worked on maintaining and updating digital archives with large datasets, including
  improving UI designs and architecture to better handle large data sets.


Cell Biology Researcher, University of Massachusetts at Worcester. October 2002 - October 2004
Worcester, Massachusetts. [labs.umassmed.edu/chlamyfp/protector_login.php]

  Discovered and sequenced novel proteins in the research organism
  Chlamydomonas. Results published in the Journal of Cell Biology, presented at
  the 2003 Cell Biology Conference.
  
  Recommended the creation of, and built, a web-based repository to store the results
  of each experiment. Cross referenced other biology based web-services,
  expanding the insight into each novel protein discovered and while also
  providing access for outside researchers.


== Education ==

Master of Information Management Systems, May 2008
  University of California at Berkeley; Berkeley, California.
  Studied user centered design, information visualization and social uses of
  information.

Bachelor of the Arts in Molecular Biology, May 2002
  Clark University; Worcester, Massachusetts.
  Graduated with Highest Honors, Phi Beta Kappa National Honor Society Member.


== Other Interesting Bits ==

Some tech things I know and love (in no particular order):
  Javascript, XHR, Python, HTTP, HTML, Ruby, CSS, PHP, XML, XSLT, XPath, SQL,
  Geolocation, Ruby on Rails, jQuery, Cherrypy, Tornado, MySQL, MongoDB, Google
  App Engine, Facebook Connect, Google Maps, some iPhone stuff, how to extract
  DNA and RNA from cells, basic carpentry, plumbing, and the list goes on!

Some non-tech things I love:
  Photography, snowboarding, surfing, travel, biking, yoga, Street Fighter II,
  running, hiking.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

"Every night, when I go to sleep, I die. Every morning, when I wake up, I am reborn." -Gandhi
